# 🎵 **Spotify API Project**

Collect and analyze artist album popularity and track audio features in relation to Laufey via Spotify's API.

## 📚 **About Me**
I am a rising sophomore at Yale University, studying Computer Science, Applied Mathematics, and Classics. With a passion in storytelling and data science, I am interested in the integration of writing and coding to tell engaging narratives. I created this project as part of the LSE ME204 (Data Engineering for the Social World) course I took in the summer of 2024.

## 🛠️ **How to replicate**

1. Install Python and a conda distribution (either Anaconda or Miniconda).
2. Create a new conda environment for this project and activate it.

```bash
conda create -n spotify_laufey_analysis --python=3.12
conda activate spotify_laufey_analysis
```

3. Install the required packages:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

4. If running on VSCode, clone this repository and activate the correct environment every time you are running a notebook.

5. Go to the [Spotify Developer's page](https://developer.spotify.com/documentation/web-api), create an account and store your credentials on a `credentials.json` file.

6. Go through each of the notebooks under the `notebooks/` folder, read and run then.

## 💡 **What you will notice while running the code...**

- API rate limit significantly affects the data collection proccess (due to this reason, when running the code, you may have to add even long waiting times between each request; I had to create 3 credentials as I faced rate limits quite frequently).
- Though the Spotify API data is relatively clean (meaning that each observation required no transformation), the queries are not structured well (this can be seen as the album searches for artists produced a lot of results where the artist in fact did not produce those albums).
- Categorization is subjective (popularity, genre, etc); do not take the data as it is. For example, Despacito had a popularity score of 0.
- A lot of important data is restricted; the Spotify API does not allow access to a lot of data that I would have liked to analyze.

## 🤖 **Generative AI Acknowledgement**

This assignment was completed with the help of ChatGPT.

More specifically, I used it in the following way:

- In NB01, the encoding in `normalize_string` was generated by ChatGPT. I needed assistance in removing accents and did not have the neccessary knowledge in decoding them and further converting them back into their respective non-accented letters.
- In NB01, the XPath in `get_top_n_artists`was produced with the assistance of ChatGPT; it helped identify the pattern necessary to extract the table elements for me in a rather quick manner. 
- In NB02, the structure in the directory navigation in `find_files_with_string` was provided by ChatGPT.
- In NB03, help with melting of the dataframes was assisted with ChatGPT; I was unfamiliar with the syntax; generative AI helped provided me the structure template, which I was then able to implement into the notebook for my own usage.